---
title: 'Biography #1'
date: 2012-08-14
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

I was born in Lyon while my parents were pursuing their doctoral studies. When I was two, our family returned to Bandung, Indonesia, where they resumed their roles as lecturers at Institut Teknologi Bandung (ITB). I don’t recall much of my childhood, except being captivated by the wonders in their laboratories; engine models, large construction machinery, concrete samples, fighter aircraft, and even a massive wooden log in what is now the "Lab Mekanika Tanah", which served as my playground. Those early experiences sparked my lifelong interest for science.

In high school, I developed a strong interest in mathematics and physics. Knowing that I wasn’t particularly good at memorization, I gravitated toward subjects that relied more on computation and problem-solving. Because of that, I decided to study electrical engineering at ITB. There, I met Pak Achmad Fuad Mas’ud, one of the best lecturers there. He always thought us through plastic sheets with a projector and made me captivated in digital systems. For my final-year project, I implemented the design of an ARM chip with him as an advisor. I was captivated by how small objects like transistors could be structured into a technology so fundamental to the “Information Age". 

In 2010, I completed my studies and decided to follow in my parents’ footsteps by pursuing education abroad. Determined to support myself, I sought scholarships, though it wasn’t easy—there was no LPDP (government-funded scholarship) at the time, and most scholarships required several years of work experience. While applying to various universities, I worked with Prof. Trio Adiono on initiatives to develop Indonesia’s semiconductor industry. In early 2011, I received an email from TU Eindhoven offering me admission to their Electrical Engineering master’s program, along with the Talent Scholarship Program (TSP, now ALSP). I was happy. Although leaving my home country was not an easy decision, I embraced the opportunity to learn more and broaden my horizons.

Acknowledgement
I want to thank my parents, my sister, and my entire family, who have always supported me and taught me how the world works.
I am deeply grateful to Pak Fuad for inspiring my interest in electronics. You may no longer be with us, but your legacy lives on in our hearts.
I also thank Pak Trio for showing me the passion to contribute to our society through technology.

